---
layout: publication
date : 2021-03-01
peerReview : false
title: "Probing many-body noise in a strongly interacting two-dimensional dipolar spin system"
authors: Emily J. Davis<sup>&dagger;</sup>, Bingtian Ye<sup>&dagger;</sup>, <mark><u><strong>Francisco Machado<sup>&dagger;</sup></strong></u></mark>, Simon A. Meynell, Thomas Mittiga, William Schenken, Maxime Joos, Bryce Kobrin, Yuanqi Lyu, Dolev Bluvstein, Soonwon Choi, Chong Zu, Ania C. Bleszynski Jayich, Norman Y. Yao 
arXivId : arXiv:2103.12742
arXivLink : https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.12742
pubName : Nature Physics
pubLink : https://www.nature.com/articles/s41567-023-01944-5
pubYear : 2023
---

The most direct approach for characterizing the quantum dynamics of a strongly-interacting system is to measure the time-evolution of its full many-body state. Despite the conceptual simplicity of this approach, it quickly becomes intractable as the system size grows. An alternate framework is to think of the many-body dynamics as generating noise, which can be measured by the decoherence of a probe qubit. Our work centers on the following question: What can the decoherence dynamics of such a probe tell us about the many-body system? In particular, we utilize optically addressable probe spins to experimentally characterize both static and dynamical properties of strongly-interacting magnetic dipoles. Our experimental platform consists of two types of spin defects in diamond: nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers (probe spins) and substitutional nitrogen impurities (many-body system). We demonstrate that signatures of the many-body system's dimensionality, dynamics, and disorder are naturally encoded in the functional form of the NV's decoherence profile. Leveraging these insights, we directly characterize the two-dimensional nature of a nitrogen delta-doped diamond sample. In addition, we explore two distinct facets of the many-body dynamics: First, we address a persistent debate about the microscopic nature of spin dynamics in strongly-interacting dipolar systems. Second, we demonstrate direct control over the spectral properties of the many-body system, including its correlation time. Our work opens the door to new directions in both quantum sensing and simulation.


