---
layout: publication
peerReview : false
title : "Quantum noise spectroscopy of superconducting critical dynamics and vortex fluctuations in a high-temperature cuprate"
authors : 
Zhongyuan Liu, Ruotian Gong, Jaewon Kim, Oriana K. Diessel, Qiaozhi Xu, Zack Rehfuss, Xinyi Du, Guanghui He, Abhishek Singh, Yun Suk Eo, Erik A. Henriksen, G. D. Gu, Norman Y. Yao, <mark><u><strong>Francisco Machado</strong></u></mark>, Sheng Ran, Shubhayu Chatterjee, Chong Zu
arXivId : arXiv:2502.04439
arXivLink : https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04439
pubName : ""
pubLink : ""
pubYear : 2025
date : 2025-02-10
---

Characterizing the low-energy dynamics of quantum materials is crucial to our understanding of strongly correlated electronic states. However, extracting universal dynamical features requires resolving correlations at both low energy and momentum. Here, we introduce nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond as a novel and powerful quantum sensing platform of superconducting materials. We demonstrate the strengths of our approach by probing several low-energy phenomena in high-Tc cuprate Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+δ (BSCCO) -- gapless quasiparticle excitations, critical fluctuations at the metal-superconductor transition and kinetics of vortices. In the absence of an applied magnetic field, we find a sharp reduction in the NV relaxation time (T1) near the critical temperature Tc≈90 K, attributed to supercurrent-fluctuation induced magnetic noise. Crucially, the temperature-scaling of the noise near criticality deviates from the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) mean-field prediction and reflects critical order parameter fluctuations, allowing us to determine both static and dynamical critical exponents for the transition. When a small field is applied, we detect a broad and asymmetric reduction of T1 near Tc, indicating significant field-induced smearing of the transition. By analyzing the scaling of the BSCCO-induced relaxation rate with the field strength, we unveil evidence in favor of a vortex liquid phase. Finally, deep inside the superconducting phase, we employ NV decoherence (T2) spectroscopy to observe strong magnetic fluctuations in the low-frequency regime, suggesting the presence of complex vortex-solid fluctuations. Our results establish NV-based noise spectroscopy as a versatile platform for probing dynamical phenomena in superconductors, with frequency and length scales complementary to existing techniques. 
